# Installation
This repo makes use of a variety of python libraries: 
+ Python 3
+ keras
+ pickle
+ cv2
+ numpy
+ flask
+ matplotlib
+ sklearn
+ tqdm
+ PIL

# Project motivation
In this project, different techniques of computer vision (human face detection) as well as deep learning / CNNs (dog breed detection using Resnet) are explored. 
Additionally, the best working model is implemented within a web app to allow for an interactive dog breed detection experience.

# File description
app/ - Flask Webapp, for details see below.  
test_images/ - images to test algorithm on.  
requirements/ - required python packages.  
dog_app.ipynb - ipynb where the model is trained and deployed. report.html is the html converted output of the notebook. inside the notebook, the trained models are saved. execution is needed before web app can be deployed. To execute the ipynb, download the [dog dataset](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-aind/dog-project/dogImages.zip) into dogImages/, the [human dataset](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-aind/dog-project/lfw.zip) into lfw/, and the [ResNet50 bottleneck features](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-aind/dog-project/DogResnet50Data.npz).

extract_bottleneck_features.py - extract bottleneck features from pre-trained CNNs.

# Web App
To run the Flask webapp, go into folder app/ and and run the file app.py. 
The webapp needs the following additional resources:
- pretrained model for dog detection in /resnet_imagenet/
- pretrained custom resnet model for dog breed detection, saved in /dog_model/
Both of these models are generated by executing dog_app.ipynb.


# Acknowledgements
All data and the structure of dog_app.ipynb was provided by Udacity. 
Parts of the web app are reused code snippets from https://github.com/krishnaik06/Deployment-Deep-Learning-Model